>> Mankind has continued to be
fascinated by the Great Pyramid
in Egypt.
How were people of the
time able to create
this massive structure?
The Great Pyramid
in the Giza Plateau
is the oldest
monument of its size.
It was created to such
perfection that modern
technology cannot
structurally replicate it,
let alone envision
its full potential.
More than 150 years after
the academic establishment
of Egyptology,
there still appears
to be little agreement
between scholars
on the function of the
Great Pyramid of Giza.
Is it possible that a
highly advanced civilization
existed in prehistory?
If so, is the Giza Pyramid a
remnant of their technology?
>> The theory that the
pyramids were tombs,
that is obviously the
academic position in terms
of the analysis of them.
And the evidence to
support that theory,
they don't really have
that much evidence.
In fact, most of the evidence
that you find in the pyramids,
the Great Pyramids specifically,
argues against tomb theory.
>> There has never been, in all
the three pyramids on the Giza
Plateau, any bodies ever
found in the sarcophagi.
So no, they probably
were not tombs.
>> The reason I don't think
it's a tomb is because of how
intricate it's designed.
I mean, just look
at it, for example.
We know that it's made
of granite, sandstone,
and limestone.
Essentially, operating
like a Faraday cage.
If we look at what
granite is, which
most of our pyramids on the
planet share this component,
granite is composed of
something called silica.
And from silica, we get silicon
like you use microchips.
And this is a great
insulator and conductor
of electromagnetic energy.
Just like you'd see
with quartz crystal
where you get
piezoelectrical energy.
Thus, when we see
this structure and how
it operates, what we
have to ask ourselves,
why would you take so
much time and effort
to put together
something that has
all these various
components, and chambers,
and ways of operating to
just use it as a tomb?
If you think about it,
why would the highly
advanced civilization
capable of using
such precise mathematical
equations and precision
build this for
storing dead bodies?
>> Mainstream archeologists
estimate the age of the Great
Pyramid in Giza to be
approximately 4,500 years old.
Others contend it's much older.
When researchers look back
at the Orion constellation
and how it would have
appeared to earthly observers
over centuries past, the
age of the Giza Pyramid
appears to date back
to around 10,500 BC,
while other researchers
suggest it's even older.
Alternatively, others
go as far to suggest
that the pyramids were not built
by the indigenous population
of Egypt, but in fact
predate the Egyptian culture,
and more significantly,
were built
by a conglomerate of
cooperative ET races.
While the date and method
of the pyramids construction
is highly disputed,
it is generally
agreed that there were more
than 2.3 million limestone
and granite blocks
ranging in weight from 2
to up to 30 tons each quarried
and transported from Aswan more
than 500 miles away.
The largest of these
stones are estimated
to weigh as much as 50 to
80 tons, or approximately
the combined weight of
80 average size cars.
>> In my opinion, it's clear
that the structure and design
of the Great Pyramid is not
simply some kind of tomb like
you might have in a
cathedral or in a churchyard.
It's there with a
specific function in mind.
It generates an energy
which can be not only felt
by whoever enters
inside the structure,
but can actually
be detected using
scientific instrumentation.
>> The reason for building
the Great Pyramid remains
an enigma.
Due to their precise
alignment with the stars,
many researchers speculate the
Great Pyramid may have been
a type of portal to the cosmos.
Others have speculated
that the pyramid may
have been used as an
energy-generating technology
for various purposes.
Either way, what
can be certain is
that the builders possessed
highly sophisticated knowledge
of mathematics and geometry.
They had knowledge of the
true dimensions of the Earth
to extreme precision
and they possessed
exceptionally advanced
technical instrumentation
to cite the Great Pyramid.
>> Within the Great Pyramid is
extraordinary precision within
its design and the engineering,
and the sheer finish of it.
I mean, we're dealing with
blocks made of granite.
Granite, which is one of the
hardest substances in the world
to work.
And you're talking about the
precision cutting of this
as much as 4,600 years ago.
But then the placement
of it to a level
that's certainly below 1% of
precision, and to such a degree
that you're not even able
to put a piece of paper
between the different courses
of the exterior-facing blocks.
So you have to ask yourself, why
did they need such precision?
>> Today's buildings, if
you're laying down a footing,
a foundation for a building,
you are required to hold
the accuracy, flatness, within
20,000s per linear foot.
If you take that over the
acreage of the Great Pyramid,
you have a base of 13 acres.
And so using 20,000
of an inch per foot,
you could be out 15 inches
based on modern specs
and modern requirements.
Whereas the actual variance of
being a perfectly flat plane
on the Great Pyramid
instead of being 15 inches
is less than an inch--
7/8 of an inch.
So they were working on a
high degree of accuracy.
So when you look at
the building pillars
that we have today
or masonry work,
you don't find that
kind of accuracy.
If you look at the interior
design, the schematics
of the Great Pyramid,
to me, it look
more like the inner
workings of a machine
than a building or a tomb
or cathedral or anything
like that.
And taking the appearance
and discovering the precision
of these inner
chambers occurred to me
that something that had the
precision of a machine, that
had the appearance of a machine,
well, perhaps it was a machine.
>> If the pyramid is a machine,
then for what possible purpose?
What if in the
ancient past someone
wanted to build an instrument
to generate light and energy?
Light can be created.
If the machine can emit charged
particles into the ionosphere.
Like the Aurora Borealis where
electrons created by the sun
collide with air
molecules to create light,
what would it take
for the Great Pyramid
to create a similar
energetic emission?
To accomplish that goal,
high conductivity material
at high frequency is required.
>> A limestone is a
very conductive material
for electricity.
And when you look to the
inner design of the pyramid,
you'll find that the most
important part of the pyramid,
which is the so-called the
tin chamber is completely
built from granite,
rose granite from Aswan.
And we understand that
granite contains quartz on it,
especially that
draws granite, it
contains 13% of its
molecular structure quarters.
So as if it is serving
a very good need
because if it is any
other type of granite,
it will contain less than
10%, sometimes 6% or 5%.
So 13% is serving high purpose.
Also, the design of the
shafts and the tunnels
inside the pyramid, it
indicates that there
are patterns of
movements or like energy
movements inside the pyramid.
It comes from the top
of the pyramid goes
to the depths of the ground.
Or the opposite-- it comes from
the deep levels of the ground
and continue up to the
middle of the pyramid
and then to the
top of the pyramid
until leaving from the
summit of the pyramid.
So for sure, the
pyramid was power plant,
and there are so many evidences.
>> The National Research Center
of Cairo analyzed limestone
from the region of Aswan.
It was discovered that
its conductance improves
at higher frequency to
an exceptional degree.
In addition to its structural
strength limestone,
is highly conductive.
The Great Pyramids of Giza
has a few chambers, shafts,
and passages.
Each of these
elements potentially
served an important role
in the pyramid's function.
>> The Great Pyramids of
Giza is just the upper part
of a massive underground
power system that you can only
understand if you have
the opportunity to use
ground-penetrating radar,
or be fortunate enough to go
underground as we did.
My scientific team
in the 1970s, '80s,
and '90s to look at the
unusual complex of water,
tunnels, and passages that
bring water in from the Nile.
That then is
recycled underground
providing an energy source,
of energy differentials
between fresh water
and salt water.
That's my hypothesis that
the Great Pyramid represents
the floor plan of a
gigantic Earth battery
that the Egyptians used
very carefully and left
behind as a model by
virtue of the storage rooms
also underground,
underneath the Giza Plateau
as a showing of a
simplified way, free energy.
>> While many experts agree the
Giza pyramid was a structure
to generate power, they have
slightly different theories
about how this was accomplished.
>> So to describe
the Giza power plant,
we go back to the source of
the energy that feeds into it.
We go to the Earth.
The Earth is the power source.
And the Great Pyramid
is tapping into it.
So how did it do that?
Principally, you have
mechanical energy flowing
through the Great Pyramid.
The Great Pyramid is cause
to resonate with the Earth.
That is its
fundamental function.
And when it resonates
with the Earth, energies
drawn through it.
And so once it's
primed, it becomes
like a coupled oscillator.
A coupled oscillator
is a device that's
attached to a larger
vibrating body.
It's in tune or harmonically
tuned to that larger vibrating
body.
And as long as the
vibrating body continues
to feed energy or vibrate,
then the coupled oscillator
will vibrate in
sympathy with it.
It will draw energy from it.
>> I was one of the founders of
the Osiris tomb over 100 feet
down under the Giza Plateau.
There's lots of water, and yet
you have a huge sarcophagi.
So why would you
have this sarcophagus
in the middle of water?
Why would you have
temples along the Nile
that are flooded with water?
Well, perhaps if they were
energy generators using water,
using solar technology
which is plentiful in Egypt.
>> The pyramids was used as an
energy structure to show us how
we could harness the water
energy system that ran closely
along the Great Pyramids.
Water, thus, was
used and managed
by pressure and by the
relationship of chambers
interconnected with each other
to provide a water circulatory
system.
A hydraulic of a
continuous feedback system
of emptying the salt
water chambers to those
of fresh water and
vise versa, to running
water over electrodes, salt
water over electrodes where
the sodium chloride ions
were removed and electricity
was produced.
A simple electrical charge
and discharge system
was there in place
beneath the pyramid.
>> I proposed in the
southern shaft carried dilute
hydrochloric acid, and then the
northern shaft carried hydrated
zinc.
And so what I was seeing
supported the theory.
And one of those electrodes
was electroplated,
where some of the metal
was actually deposited
on one of the electrodes.
And then in the
northern shaft, you
have quite a lot of
erosion in that shaft.
You have the creation
of gypsum oozing out
of some of the cracks.
And then you have
a condition where
the lower parts of
the shaft were more
eroded than the upper parts,
which makes sense considering
that you have a
higher concentration
of the acid towards the
bottom than you would the top.
So that seems to
confirm the theory
that they were using that
as a reaction chamber,
and everything
seemed to make sense.
And I found some very,
very interesting,
and I would say evidence, of
electrical symbols painted
on the floor.
Behind the door,
they had these loops,
metal fittings came outside
of the back of the door
and looped around and
then went back in.
So it was almost like
they were locking
those electrodes in place
so they wouldn't shift.
>> If metal had
been placed there,
those could have been the
anodes and cathodes for energy
generation.
This is a great possibility
that the pyramid itself
was an energy factory.
>> One emerging theory suggests
that the pyramid was a power
plant for Tesla-like
free energy.
To achieve this, it's believed
that the Queen's Chamber
was used as a power collector.
Originally, the Queen's Chamber
as well as the entire pyramid,
was covered in a
polished white limestone
with the top of the pyramid
covered with crystal and gold
at the apex.
As particles funneled down from
the atmosphere toward the Earth
and through the pyramid,
the insulating properties
of the piezoelectrically-charged
white limestone in the Queen's
Chamber prevented the
electrical particles
from returning back
into the atmosphere.
Connecting to the
aquifers below,
they created a
concentrated differential
of charges between
sky and Earth.
This would be like having
a continuous lightning
bolt with regulated voltage.
The unique thing to understand
is that between sky and Earth,
there is a charge in
polarity, depending
on atmospheric circumstances.
Even today in the
underground chamber,
there are traces of cables and
metal structures for grounding.
It's dry now but
water was flowing,
creating a grounding effect.
The suggestion is
that there is now
a place of continuous
charge creating free energy.
That is why they were
on the lay lines,
giving them a greater connection
to the ground essentially.
It only concentrates
the charge differential
between sky and Earth.
It is the planet itself
that creates the energy.
In short it is pure Tesla as
we would reference it today.
While experts explore
the physical evidence
of the Great Pyramid as a
power-generating technology,
the design elements also
suggests the importance
of acoustics.
>> Every room from the highest
chamber to the lowest chamber
was thought out and
designed beforehand.
Even the so-called unfinished
or subterranean chamber
right within the
bedrock itself hundreds
of feet beneath the
pyramids was specifically
designed with
acoustics in mind, it
was being chiseled away until
they reached a point where
they said, that's it, stop.
We've achieved
exactly the acoustics
we need to generate
certain sound frequencies.
We need go no further.
So they left it the
way that it was.
And those sound frequencies
can be detected today, which
is exactly what we have done.
>> The Great Pyramid has always
attracted attention when it
comes to the unusual
acoustics on the interior.
I think the first recording of
somebody actually commenting
on the acoustics is Napoleon.
The other one was Paul
Horn who is a flutist.
[FLUTE MUSIC PLAYING]
He made a recording
inside the Great Pyramid.
[FLUTE MUSIC PLAYING]
It is called Inside.
And he recorded in
all the chambers.
Paul noted that
the reverberation
in the King's Chamber
was about eight seconds.
It was a very long.
[FLUTE MUSIC PLAYING]
And he also reported that the
frequency, when you struck it,
rang it around 438 hertz
which is close to 440.
>> In 2019, I was able to go
into the Great Pyramid with
a team of about 15 people.
And we were permitted to carry
out a very simple experiment.
And everybody went into
every different part
of the Great Pyramid
and sounds were
made in each of these chambers
so that we could not only
monitor the different
frequencies,
the different decibels,
but also to find out
whether those sounds could be
heard in different chambers.
And we're able to build up
an incredible picture of what
was going on an acoustic level.
And the different
frequency ranges not only
were those fine tuned
towards the human voice.
In other words, chanting,
singing, and other forms
of ceremonial activity
were obviously in mind
with the design of the chambers.
But beyond that, we
were able to detect
in the lowest of the chambers,
the so-called subterranean
chamber, and a long passage
that exits from this chamber
called the dead-end
passage, we were
able to find that in
here, there was generated
incredibly low
frequencies as well
as what is known as infrasound.
And this seems to
have been deliberate.
Infrasound is sound frequencies
that are below 20 hertz.
So we do not hear them so much
as feel them and experience
them.
And they affect us on
a very subtle level.
They cause what we would refer
to as paranormal experiences
or the sense that we're entering
into otherworldly environments.
>> We most certainly know that
when you visit in the Great
Pyramid and you go into
these various rooms,
there's a particular
tonal frequency.
And when you visit
the King's Chamber,
and you can make the
sacred ohm sound,
it's almost as if it's been
harmonized towards this.
In fact, in our groups
that have made that sound,
it's almost as if there's this
transcendental experience where
the entire room disappears and
the stars become present out
the top of it.
There most certainly is this
timeless sound and frequency
wavelength like feeling
when you immerse yourself
into this magnificent monument.
>> Resonance has gives a
certain physical feature to this
monument.
For example, it allows waves
like electromagnetic waves
to be concentrated in
some parts of the monument
or specifically
under the monument,
whereas in other parts,
they do not concentrate.
And so what does that do?
It creates a gradient.
You have an area where you have
a high concentration of energy.
And then you have
other areas where
you have a low concentration,
and those areas
are closer to the top
of the Great Pyramid.
So what does that do?
It basically creates
a flow of current
in this case or magnetic waves.
And that to me suggests
that it is possible
that the Great Pyramid
may have actually
operated to concentrate power
by creating this gradient.
>> And this seems to
be something very,
very important in connection
with the function of the Great
Pyramid.
It was to generate sound
on many different levels.
But beyond this is the
fact that infrasound
can be carried through rock
for great distances, perhaps
many miles, like seismic waves.
And I'm pretty certain that the
builders of the Great Pyramid
would have been very
much aware of this.
So they are carrying
energy, they
are generating energy that can
be carried through the rock
to the other monuments
on the Giza Plateau.
Now, why would
this be important?
The answer is so that rituals
and ceremonies can take place
at other locations
on the plateau that
can resonate and harmonize
with the Great Pyramid itself.
In other words, it was all part
of one huge great harmonizing
landscape that was all
working as one together.
>> The very geometry
of the Great Pyramid,
the angles themselves.
A 51-51 approximately for
the geometry is amazing.
It does put you into an
altered state of reality.
And Professor
Golod in Russia has
built pyramids not even
of the same geometry
and certainly not of bricks
and stones and limestone
and mortar.
He makes them
simply out of wood.
And people go inside
and they're healed.
So it's an amazing
geometry no matter
how you place it around
yourself or around the planet.
So the pyramid itself
is a key geometry
for our own life system.
And I believe that our
body itself creates
its own pyramidal geometry.
And inside our mind,
we have pyramidal cells
which are really pyramidal
brain cells in our body.
So all of this is part
of our geometry of life.
>> The Great Pyramid is
a geographical marvel.
Located at the exact
center of the planet
at the intersection of the
longest line of latitude
and the longest
line of longitude.
Some researchers
suggest for a structure
to generate high
frequency radiation, which
is really light, it must be
surrounded by a large landmass.
This begs the question,
is it possible
that the Giza
Pyramids function is
connected to its actual
location on Earth?
>> The answer to that
almost certainly is yes,
because it lies at exactly
30 degrees latitude.
That's one third of the distance
from the equator to the North
Pole.
And although as far as
longitude is concerned,
it's also at 30 degrees.
Quite clearly, it is also
1/12 of the circumference
of the Earth itself.
And this seems to be
beyond coincidence.
And this tells us very
clearly that there
was a specific purpose in
building the Great Pyramid
exactly where it was.
Again, I don't think this is
coincidence because as we know,
the number 12 plays
such an important role
in the canon of cosmic numbers
in cultures all the way
around the world.
>> The geology of
the site is ideal.
It is what people
call a power place.
And the ancients knew
about these power places.
So as far as Giza, that seems
to be Grand Central right there.
I mean, it definitely is
a very energetic site.
>> Some theories suggest
that humans may have had help
creating the Great Pyramid
from extraterrestrials,
or that some divine knowledge
and inspiration is what made
the feat possible.
In part, that's because
some explanations put forth
suggested that the Great Pyramid
was constructed using long lost
sonic technology to levitate
and place the massive stones as
well as high energy
tools which may
have resembled modern-day lasers
to precisely cut the blocks.
Whatever explanation is offered
about the pyramids origins
and construction,
it seems evident
that a higher
consciousness was involved.
>> My book, The Keys of Enoch,
states that there is a global
power grid system in the shape
of a dodecahedron which is
a very complex geometry that
is then sliced into pyramidal
sections.
The Great Pyramid, it represents
the center of this grid system
that was to harness energy.
The Great Pyramid represents, at
a much earlier dates, knowledge
that I believe was
given to the human race
by higher evolutionary
intelligence.
Masterminded by the
Egyptian priest scientists,
and then distributed
in later generations
and dynastic periods by a wide
variety of global societies.
>> So legends say
that after Atlantis,
some of the remaining
civilizations went to Egypt,
and that was one of the
energy activation points.
So I believe that many of the
other points that have been
ancient stargates are lost.
But Egypt seems to be a key
remaining activated energy
point, a real stargate, a real
place of energy generation.
>> The depth of symbolism and
mystery surrounding the Giza
Pyramid makes it unique on Earth
for what some describe as its
metaphysical properties.
>> I think if the Great Pyramid
was meant to be a mathematical
shrine, or a tome to physics,
or a communication device,
then I think we have
to seriously entertain
the possibility that we live
in a simulated universe.
Because we have to then consider
the idea that it was planted
for us to figure out on our own
that we live in a simulation.
>> So the Great Pyramid
is a place of initiation.
If you go inside the King's
Chamber and you chant,
you actually get initiated
because the frequencies drop
your mind from the normal
waking state to the alpha,
to the theta, even
into the delta range.
And you're able to be initiated
with the star gods, connected
with Orion.
This is powerful stuff.
We are activated by those
in the heavenly dimensions,
and they are helping us to make
that reconnection, that linkage
back into our cosmic selves.
>> If you take all those
pyramids and tune them and make
them sing to the Earth, then the
Earth would sing back but with
a louder voice.
But the result will be
that you would harmonize
the planet,
harmonize the plates,
and also the people that
are living in the area.
>> Now whether the Great Pyramid
was a power plant or it was
a portal aligned with Orion's
Belt to take you somewhere,
I feel from my experiences
in visiting it that it is one
of the most magnificent
monuments on this planet.
It's the greatest doorway
to our ancient past,
and it holds clues about
the origins of humanity.
There is an immense feeling
of power when you visit it
that overwhelms the puny
sensibilities of humankind.
And the only thing
I can say about it
is that it's transformational
when you walk into it.
>> In essence, the Great Pyramid
complex is the inductive spark
to activate the cosmic roadmap
that connects Mother Earth,
the stars of Orion, the
mortality of the human race
with immortality of the gods
or those who live in the reach
of hmw-sk, the Egyptian word
for the imperishable star gods.
Merion to Ion, there is
the chemistry of eternity.
And that is why these
terms have come down even
from the Greek philosophers and
scientists into our vocabulary.
The ionization of the water, the
ionization of the human blood,
the heartbeat of the
human body, the activation
of the sound structure of
higher states of consciousness
all reflect a periodic charts
of birth, death, and ascension.
>> I don't think that we
can ever recreate the Great
Pyramid.
I think that it is one of the
pinnacles of human engineering
and achievement.
Not just in the ancient
world but in the modern world
at the same time.
And to understand its
function, I think,
is something that will
unlock the cosmic secrets
of humankind.
>> While the physical pyramid
emerges from the Earth
and ascends energetically
toward the light of the cosmos,
so too does the energy of
the cosmos shine down through
the Great Pyramid
energizing the Earth below.
The modern world may hold
the key to many secrets
but the ancient world knew
one of monumental proportions,
and to this day,
safeguards the secret
within the hidden chambers
of the Giza Pyramid.
Next time on Deep Space, we
explore the world of illusion.
Do we live in a
holographic universe?
[MUSIC PLAYING]